    ยง  208.  Notification; person without valid authorization has acquired
  private information. 1. As used in this  section,  the  following  terms
  shall have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Private   information"   shall  mean  personal  information  in
  combination with any one or more of the following  data  elements,  when
  either  the personal information or the data element is not encrypted or
  encrypted with an encryption key that has also been acquired:
    (1) social security number;
    (2) driver's license number or non-driver identification card  number;
  or
    (3)  account  number, credit or debit card number, in combination with
  any required security code, access code, or password which would  permit
  access to an individual's financial account.
    "Private  information" does not include publicly available information
  that is lawfully made available to  the  general  public  from  federal,
  state, or local government records.
    (b)  "Breach  of  the  security of the system" shall mean unauthorized
  acquisition or acquisition without valid authorization  of  computerized
  data  which  compromises  the security, confidentiality, or integrity of
  personal  information  maintained  by  a  state   entity.   Good   faith
  acquisition  of  personal information by an employee or agent of a state
  entity for the purposes of the agency is not a breach of the security of
  the system, provided that the private information is not used or subject
  to unauthorized disclosure.
    In determining whether information has been acquired, or is reasonably
  believed to have been acquired, by an unauthorized person  or  a  person
  without   valid  authorization,  such  state  entity  may  consider  the
  following factors, among others:
    (1) indications that the information is in the physical possession and
  control of an unauthorized person, such as a lost or stolen computer  or
  other device containing information; or
    (2) indications that the information has been downloaded or copied; or
    (3)  indications  that  the  information  was  used by an unauthorized
  person, such as fraudulent accounts  opened  or  instances  of  identity
  theft reported.
    (c)  "State  entity"  shall  mean  any  state board, bureau, division,
  committee, commission, council,  department,  public  authority,  public
  benefit  corporation,  office  or other governmental entity performing a
  governmental or proprietary function for the state of New York, except:
    (1) the judiciary; and
    (2) all cities, counties, municipalities, villages, towns,  and  other
  local agencies.
    (d)  "Consumer  reporting  agency"  shall  mean  any person which, for
  monetary fees, dues, or on  a  cooperative  nonprofit  basis,  regularly
  engages  in whole or in part in the practice of assembling or evaluating
  consumer credit information or other information on  consumers  for  the
  purpose  of furnishing consumer reports to third parties, and which uses
  any means  or  facility  of  interstate  commerce  for  the  purpose  of
  preparing  or  furnishing consumer reports. A list of consumer reporting
  agencies shall be compiled by the state attorney general  and  furnished
  upon  request  to  state  entities required to make a notification under
  subdivision two of this section.
    2. Any state entity that  owns  or  licenses  computerized  data  that
  includes  private  information shall disclose any breach of the security
  of the system following discovery or notification of the breach  in  the
  security  of  the system to any resident of New York state whose private
  information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, acquired  by  a
  person  without valid authorization. The disclosure shall be made in the

  most expedient time possible and without unreasonable delay,  consistent
  with the legitimate needs of law enforcement, as provided in subdivision
  four  of  this section, or any measures necessary to determine the scope
  of  the  breach and restore the reasonable integrity of the data system.
  The state entity shall consult with  the  state  office  of  information
  technology services to determine the scope of the breach and restoration
  measures.
    3.  Any  state  entity  that maintains computerized data that includes
  private information which such agency does  not  own  shall  notify  the
  owner  or  licensee  of the information of any breach of the security of
  the system immediately following discovery, if the  private  information
  was,  or  is  reasonably  believed  to  have  been, acquired by a person
  without valid authorization.
    4. The notification required by this section may be delayed if  a  law
  enforcement  agency determines that such notification impedes a criminal
  investigation. The notification required by this section shall  be  made
  after such law enforcement agency determines that such notification does
  not compromise such investigation.
    5.  The  notice required by this section shall be directly provided to
  the affected persons by one of the following methods:
    (a) written notice;
    (b) electronic notice, provided that the  person  to  whom  notice  is
  required  has expressly consented to receiving said notice in electronic
  form and a log of each such notification is kept by the state entity who
  notifies affected persons in such form; provided further, however,  that
  in  no  case shall any person or business require a person to consent to
  accepting said notice in said form as a condition  of  establishing  any
  business relationship or engaging in any transaction;
    (c)   telephone   notification  provided  that  a  log  of  each  such
  notification is kept by the state entity who notifies affected  persons;
  or
    (d)  Substitute  notice,  if  a state entity demonstrates to the state
  attorney general that the cost of  providing  notice  would  exceed  two
  hundred  fifty  thousand  dollars, or that the affected class of subject
  persons to be notified exceeds five hundred  thousand,  or  such  agency
  does  not  have  sufficient contact information. Substitute notice shall
  consist of all of the following:
    (1) e-mail notice when such state entity has an e-mail address for the
  subject persons;
    (2) conspicuous posting of the notice on such state entity's web  site
  page, if such agency maintains one; and
    (3) notification to major statewide media.
    6.  Regardless  of the method by which notice is provided, such notice
  shall include contact  information  for  the  state  entity  making  the
  notification  and  a  description  of the categories of information that
  were, or are reasonably believed to have  been,  acquired  by  a  person
  without  valid  authorization,  including  specification of which of the
  elements of personal information and private information  were,  or  are
  reasonably believed to have been, so acquired.
    7.  (a)  In  the event that any New York residents are to be notified,
  the state entity shall notify the state attorney general, the department
  of state and the state office of information technology services  as  to
  the  timing,  content  and  distribution  of the notices and approximate
  number of affected persons. Such notice shall be made  without  delaying
  notice to affected New York residents.
    (b)  In  the event that more than five thousand New York residents are
  to be notified at one time, the state entity shall also notify  consumer
  reporting  agencies  as  to  the timing, content and distribution of the

  notices and approximate number of affected persons. Such notice shall be
  made without delaying notice to affected New York residents.
    8.  Any  entity  listed  in  subparagraph  two  of  paragraph  (c)  of
  subdivision one of this section shall adopt  a  notification  policy  no
  more  than  one  hundred  twenty  days  after the effective date of this
  section.  Such  entity  may  develop  a  notification  policy  which  is
  consistent  with  this  section or alternatively shall adopt a local law
  which is consistent with this section.
