     §487N-1  Definitions.  As used in this
chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:


     "Business" means a sole
proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or other group, however
organized, and whether or not organized to operate at a profit.  The term
includes a financial institution organized, chartered, or holding a license or
authorization certificate under the laws of the State, any other state, the
United States, or any other country, or the parent or the subsidiary of any
such financial institution.  The term also includes an entity whose business is
records destruction.


     "Council" means the information
privacy and security council established under section 487N-5.


     "Encryption" or "encrypted"
means the use of an algorithmic process to transform data into a form in which
the data is rendered unreadable or unusable without the use of a confidential
process or key.


     "Government agency" means any
department, division, board, commission, public corporation, or other agency or
instrumentality of the State or of any county.


     "Personal information" means
an individual's first name or first initial and last name in combination with
any one or more of the following data elements, when either the name or the
data elements are not encrypted:


     (1)  Social security number;


     (2)  Driver's license number or Hawaii identification
card number; or


     (3)  Account number, credit or debit card number,
access code, or password that would permit access to an individual's financial
account.


"Personal information" does not include
publicly available information that is lawfully made available to the general
public from federal, state, or local government records.


     "Records" means any material on which
written, drawn, spoken, visual, or electromagnetic information is recorded or
preserved, regardless of physical form or characteristics.


     "Redacted" means the rendering of
data so that it is unreadable or is truncated so that no more than the last
four digits of the identification number are accessible as part of the data.


     "Security breach" means an incident
of unauthorized access to and acquisition of unencrypted or unredacted records
or data containing personal information where illegal use of the personal
information has occurred, or is reasonably likely to occur and that creates a
risk of harm to a person.  Any incident of unauthorized access to and
acquisition of encrypted records or data containing personal information along
with the confidential process or key constitutes a security breach.  Good faith
acquisition of personal information by an employee or agent of the business for
a legitimate purpose is not a security breach; provided that the personal
information is not used for a purpose other than a lawful purpose of the
business and is not subject to further unauthorized disclosure. [L 2006, c 135,
pt of §2; am L 2008, c 19, §69; am L Sp 2008, c 10, §5]


 


 





	Previous	Vol11_Ch0476-0490	Next






     §487N-2  Notice of security breach. 
(a)  Any business that owns or licenses personal information of residents of
Hawaii, any business that conducts business in Hawaii that owns or licenses
personal information in any form (whether computerized, paper, or otherwise),
or any government agency that collects personal information for specific
government purposes shall provide notice to the affected person that there has
been a security breach following discovery or notification of the breach.  The
disclosure notification shall be made without unreasonable delay, consistent
with the legitimate needs of law enforcement as provided in subsection (c) of
this section, and consistent with any measures necessary to determine
sufficient contact information, determine the scope of the breach, and restore
the reasonable integrity, security, and confidentiality of the data system.


     (b)  Any business located in Hawaii or any
business that conducts business in Hawaii that maintains or possesses records
or data containing personal information of residents of Hawaii that the
business does not own or license, or any government agency that maintains or
possesses records or data containing personal information of residents of
Hawaii shall notify the owner or licensee of the information of any security
breach immediately following discovery of the breach, consistent with the
legitimate needs of law enforcement as provided in subsection (c).


     (c)  The notice required by this section shall
be delayed if a law enforcement agency informs the business or government
agency that notification may impede a criminal investigation or jeopardize
national security and requests a delay; provided that such request is made in
writing, or the business or government agency documents the request contemporaneously
in writing, including the name of the law enforcement officer making the
request and the officer's law enforcement agency engaged in the investigation. 
The notice required by this section shall be provided without unreasonable
delay after the law enforcement agency communicates to the business or
government agency its determination that notice will no longer impede the
investigation or jeopardize national security.


     (d)  The notice shall be clear and
conspicuous.  The notice shall include a description of the following:


     (1)  The incident in general terms;


     (2)  The type of personal information that was subject
to the unauthorized access and acquisition;


     (3)  The general acts of the business or government
agency to protect the personal information from further unauthorized access;


     (4)  A telephone number that the person may call for
further information and assistance, if one exists; and


     (5)  Advice that directs the person to remain vigilant
by reviewing account statements and monitoring free credit reports.


     (e)  For purposes of this section, notice to
affected persons may be provided by one of the following methods:


     (1)  Written notice to the last available address the
business or government agency has on record; 


     (2)  Electronic mail notice, for those persons for
whom a business or government agency has a valid electronic mail address and
who have agreed to receive communications electronically if the notice provided
is consistent with the provisions regarding electronic records and signatures
for notices legally required to be in writing set forth in 15 U.S.C. section
7001;


     (3)  Telephonic notice, provided that contact is made
directly with the affected persons; and


     (4)  Substitute notice, if the business or government
agency demonstrates that the cost of providing notice would exceed $100,000 or
that the affected class of subject persons to be notified exceeds two hundred
thousand, or if the business or government agency does not have sufficient
contact information or consent to satisfy paragraph (1), (2), or (3), for only
those affected persons without sufficient contact information or consent, or if
the business or government agency is unable to identify particular affected
persons, for only those unidentifiable affected persons.  Substitute notice
shall consist of all the following:


          (A)  Electronic mail notice when the business
or government agency has an electronic mail address for the subject persons;


          (B)  Conspicuous posting of the notice on the
website page of the business or government agency, if one is maintained; and


          (C)  Notification to major statewide media.


     (f)  In the event a business provides notice to
more than one thousand persons at one time pursuant to this section, the
business shall notify in writing, without unreasonable delay, the State of
Hawaii's office of consumer protection and all consumer reporting agencies that
compile and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis, as defined in 15
U.S.C. section 1681a(p), of the timing, distribution, and content of the
notice.


     (g)  The following businesses shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section:


     (1)  A financial institution that is subject to the federal
Interagency Guidance on Response Programs for Unauthorized Access to Customer
Information and Customer Notice published in the Federal Register on March 29,
2005, by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
and the Office of Thrift Supervision, or subject to 12 C.F.R. Part 748, and any
revisions, additions, or substitutions relating to the interagency guidance;
and


     (2)  Any health plan or healthcare provider that is
subject to and in compliance with the standards for privacy or individually
identifiable health information and the security standards for the protection
of electronic health information of the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996.


     (h)  Any waiver of the provisions of this
section is contrary to public policy and is void and unenforceable. [L 2006, c
135, pt of §2; am L 2008, c 19, §70]


 


 





	Previous	Vol11_Ch0476-0490	Next






     [§487N-3]  Penalties; civil action. 
(a)  Any business that violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to penalties of not more than $2,500 for each violation.  The attorney general
or the executive director of the office of consumer protection may bring an
action pursuant to this section.  No such action may be brought against a
government agency.


     (b)  In addition to any penalty provided for in
subsection (a), any business that violates any provision of this chapter shall
be liable to the injured party in an amount equal to the sum of any actual
damages sustained by the injured party as a result of the violation.  The court
in any action brought under this section may award reasonable attorneys' fees
to the prevailing party.  No such action may be brought against a government
agency.


     (c)  The penalties provided in this section
shall be cumulative to the remedies or penalties available under all other laws
of this State. [L 2006, c 135, pt of §2]


 


 





	Previous	Vol11_Ch0476-0490	Next






     [§487N-4]  Reporting requirements.  A
government agency shall submit a written report to the legislature within
twenty days after discovery of a security breach at the government agency that
details information relating to the nature of the breach, the number of
individuals affected by the breach, a copy of the notice of security breach
that was issued, the number of individuals to whom the notice was sent, whether
the notice was delayed due to law enforcement considerations, and any
procedures that have been implemented to prevent the breach from reoccurring. 
In the event that a law enforcement agency informs the government agency that
notification may impede a criminal investigation or jeopardize national
security, the report to the legislature may be delayed until twenty days after
the law enforcement agency has determined that notice will no longer impede the
investigation or jeopardize national security. [L 2006, c 135, pt of §2]


 


 





	Previous	Vol11_Ch0476-0490	Next






     [§487N-6]  Personal information security;
best practices; websites.  (a)  The council shall identify best practices
to assist government agencies in improving security and privacy programs
relating to personal information.  No later than March 31, 2009, the
council shall identify best practices relating to:


     (1)  Automated tools;


     (2)  Training;


     (3)  Processes; and


     (4)  Applicable standards.


     (b)  No later than July 31, 2009, the best
practices identified by the council shall be posted on each government agency's
website in a manner that is readily accessible by employees of the government
agency. [L Sp 2008, c 10, pt of §4]


 


 





	Previous	Vol11_Ch0476-0490	Next






     [§487N-7]  Personal information system;
government agencies; annual report.  (a)  Effective January 1, 2009, any
government agency that maintains one or more personal information systems shall
submit to the council an annual report on the existence and character of each
personal information system added or eliminated since the agency's previous
annual report.  The annual report shall be submitted no later than September 30
of each year.


     (b)  The annual report shall include:


     (1)  The name or descriptive title of the personal
information system and its location;


     (2)  The nature and purpose of the personal
information system and the statutory or administrative authority for its
establishment;


     (3)  The categories of individuals on whom personal
information is maintained, including:


          (A)  The approximate number of all individuals
on whom personal information is maintained; and


          (B)  The categories of personal information
generally maintained in the system, including identification of records that
are:


               (i)  Stored in computer accessible records; or


              (ii)  Maintained manually;


     (4)  All confidentiality requirements relating to:


          (A)  Personal information systems or parts
thereof that are confidential pursuant to statute, rule, or contractual
obligation; and


          (B)  Personal information systems maintained
on an unrestricted basis;


     (5)  Detailed justification of the need for statutory
or regulatory authority to maintain any personal information system or part
thereof on a confidential basis for all personal information systems or parts
thereof that are required by law or rule;


     (6)  The categories of sources of personal
information;


     (7)  The agency's policies and practices regarding
personal information storage, duration of retention of information, and
elimination of information from the system;


     (8)  The uses made by the agency of personal
information contained in any personal information system;


     (9)  The identity of agency personnel, by job
classification, and other agencies, persons, or categories to whom
disclosures of personal information are made or to whom access to the personal
information system may be granted, including the purposes of access and any
restrictions on disclosure, access, and redisclosure;


    (10)  A list identifying all forms used by the agency
in the collection of personal information; and


    (11)  The name, title, business address, and telephone
number of the individual immediately responsible for complying with this
section.


     (c)  For purposes of this section:


     "Personal information system" means
any manual or automated recordkeeping process that contains personal
information and the name, personal number, or other identifying particulars of
a data subject.


     (d)  Notwithstanding any other law to the
contrary, this report shall be confidential and not disclosed publicly in any
form or forum. [L Sp 2008, c 10, pt of §4]


 


 





	Previous	Vol11_Ch0476-0490	Next


