282.318 Security of data and information technology.—
(1) This section may be cited as the “ Information Technology Security Act.”
(2) As used in this section, the term “state agency” has the same meaning as provided in s. 282.0041, except that the term includes the Department of Legal Affairs, the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, and the Department of Financial Services.
(3) The Agency for State Technology is responsible for establishing standards and processes consistent with generally accepted best practices for information technology security, to include cybersecurity, and adopting rules that safeguard an agency’s data, information, and information technology resources to ensure availability, confidentiality, and integrity and to mitigate risks. The agency shall also:
(a) Develop, and annually update by February 1, a statewide information technology security strategic plan that includes security goals and objectives for the strategic issues of information technology security policy, risk management, training, incident management, and disaster recovery planning.
(b) Develop and publish for use by state agencies an information technology security framework that, at a minimum, includes guidelines and processes for:
1. Establishing asset management procedures to ensure that an agency’s information technology resources are identified and managed consistent with their relative importance to the agency’s business objectives.
2. Using a standard risk assessment methodology that includes the identification of an agency’s priorities, constraints, risk tolerances, and assumptions necessary to support operational risk decisions.
3. Completing comprehensive risk assessments and information technology security audits, which may be completed by a private sector vendor, and submitting completed assessments and audits to the Agency for State Technology.
4. Identifying protection procedures to manage the protection of an agency’s information, data, and information technology resources.
5. Establishing procedures for accessing information and data to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of such information and data.
6. Detecting threats through proactive monitoring of events, continuous security monitoring, and defined detection processes.
7. Establishing agency computer security incident response teams and describing their responsibilities for responding to information technology security incidents, including breaches of personal information containing confidential or exempt data.
8. Recovering information and data in response to an information technology security incident. The recovery may include recommended improvements to the agency processes, policies, or guidelines.
9. Establishing an information technology security incident reporting process that includes procedures and tiered reporting timeframes for notifying the Agency for State Technology and the Department of Law Enforcement of information technology security incidents. The tiered reporting timeframes shall be based upon the level of severity of the information technology security incidents being reported.
10. Incorporating information obtained through detection and response activities into the agency’s information technology security incident response plans.
11. Developing agency strategic and operational information technology security plans required pursuant to this section.
12. Establishing the managerial, operational, and technical safeguards for protecting state government data and information technology resources that align with the state agency risk management strategy and that protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information and data.
(c) Assist state agencies in complying with this section.
(d) In collaboration with the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, annually provide training for state agency information security managers and computer security incident response team members that contains training on information technology security, including cybersecurity, threats, trends, and best practices.
(e) Annually review the strategic and operational information technology security plans of executive branch agencies.
(4) Each state agency head shall, at a minimum:
(a) Designate an information security manager to administer the information technology security program of the state agency. This designation must be provided annually in writing to the Agency for State Technology by January 1. A state agency’s information security manager, for purposes of these information security duties, shall report directly to the agency head.
(b) In consultation with the Agency for State Technology and the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, establish an agency computer security incident response team to respond to an information technology security incident. The agency computer security incident response team shall convene upon notification of an information technology security incident and must comply with all applicable guidelines and processes established pursuant to paragraph (3)(b).
(c) Submit to the Agency for State Technology annually by July 31, the state agency’s strategic and operational information technology security plans developed pursuant to rules and guidelines established by the Agency for State Technology.
1. The state agency strategic information technology security plan must cover a 3-year period and, at a minimum, define security goals, intermediate objectives, and projected agency costs for the strategic issues of agency information security policy, risk management, security training, security incident response, and disaster recovery. The plan must be based on the statewide information technology security strategic plan created by the Agency for State Technology and include performance metrics that can be objectively measured to reflect the status of the state agency’s progress in meeting security goals and objectives identified in the agency’s strategic information security plan.
2. The state agency operational information technology security plan must include a progress report that objectively measures progress made towards the prior operational information technology security plan and a project plan that includes activities, timelines, and deliverables for security objectives that the state agency will implement during the current fiscal year.
(d) Conduct, and update every 3 years, a comprehensive risk assessment, which may be completed by a private sector vendor, to determine the security threats to the data, information, and information technology resources, including mobile devices and print environments, of the agency. The risk assessment must comply with the risk assessment methodology developed by the Agency for State Technology and is confidential and exempt from s. 119.07(1), except that such information shall be available to the Auditor General, the Agency for State Technology, the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, and, for state agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor, the Chief Inspector General.
(e) Develop, and periodically update, written internal policies and procedures, which include procedures for reporting information technology security incidents and breaches to the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement and the Agency for State Technology. Such policies and procedures must be consistent with the rules, guidelines, and processes established by the Agency for State Technology to ensure the security of the data, information, and information technology resources of the agency. The internal policies and procedures that, if disclosed, could facilitate the unauthorized modification, disclosure, or destruction of data or information technology resources are confidential information and exempt from s. 119.07(1), except that such information shall be available to the Auditor General, the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, the Agency for State Technology, and, for state agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor, the Chief Inspector General.
(f) Implement managerial, operational, and technical safeguards and risk assessment remediation plans recommended by the Agency for State Technology to address identified risks to the data, information, and information technology resources of the agency.
(g) Ensure that periodic internal audits and evaluations of the agency’s information technology security program for the data, information, and information technology resources of the agency are conducted. The results of such audits and evaluations are confidential information and exempt from s. 119.07(1), except that such information shall be available to the Auditor General, the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, the Agency for State Technology, and, for agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor, the Chief Inspector General.
(h) Include appropriate information technology security requirements in the written specifications for the solicitation of information technology and information technology resources and services, which are consistent with the rules and guidelines established by the Agency for State Technology in collaboration with the Department of Management Services.
(i) Provide information technology security and cybersecurity awareness training to all state agency employees in the first 30 days after commencing employment concerning information technology security risks and the responsibility of employees to comply with policies, standards, guidelines, and operating procedures adopted by the state agency to reduce those risks. The training may be provided in collaboration with the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement.
(j) Develop a process for detecting, reporting, and responding to threats, breaches, or information technology security incidents which is consistent with the security rules, guidelines, and processes established by the Agency for State Technology.
1. All information technology security incidents and breaches must be reported to the Agency for State Technology and the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement and must comply with the notification procedures and reporting timeframes established pursuant to paragraph (3)(b).
2. For information technology security breaches, state agencies shall provide notice in accordance with s. 501.171.
3. Records held by a state agency which identify detection, investigation, or response practices for suspected or confirmed information technology security incidents, including suspected or confirmed breaches, are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07(1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution, if the disclosure of such records would facilitate unauthorized access to or the unauthorized modification, disclosure, or destruction of:
a. Data or information, whether physical or virtual; or
b. Information technology resources, which includes:
(I) Information relating to the security of the agency’s technologies, processes, and practices designed to protect networks, computers, data processing software, and data from attack, damage, or unauthorized access; or
(II) Security information, whether physical or virtual, which relates to the agency’s existing or proposed information technology systems.
Such records shall be available to the Auditor General, the Agency for State Technology, the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, and, for state agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor, the Chief Inspector General. Such records may be made available to a local government, another state agency, or a federal agency for information technology security purposes or in furtherance of the state agency’s official duties. This exemption applies to such records held by a state agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. This subparagraph is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2021, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature.
(5) The portions of risk assessments, evaluations, external audits, and other reports of a state agency’s information technology security program for the data, information, and information technology resources of the state agency which are held by a state agency are confidential and exempt from s. 119.07(1) and s. 24(a), Art. I of the State Constitution if the disclosure of such portions of records would facilitate unauthorized access to or the unauthorized modification, disclosure, or destruction of:
(a) Data or information, whether physical or virtual; or
(b) Information technology resources, which include:
1. Information relating to the security of the agency’s technologies, processes, and practices designed to protect networks, computers, data processing software, and data from attack, damage, or unauthorized access; or
2. Security information, whether physical or virtual, which relates to the agency’s existing or proposed information technology systems.
Such portions of records shall be available to the Auditor General, the Cybercrime Office of the Department of Law Enforcement, the Agency for State Technology, and, for agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor, the Chief Inspector General. Such portions of records may be made available to a local government, another state agency, or a federal agency for information technology security purposes or in furtherance of the state agency’s official duties. For purposes of this subsection, “external audit” means an audit that is conducted by an entity other than the state agency that is the subject of the audit. This exemption applies to such records held by a state agency before, on, or after the effective date of this exemption. This subsection is subject to the Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.15 and shall stand repealed on October 2, 2021, unless reviewed and saved from repeal through reenactment by the Legislature.
(6) The Agency for State Technology shall adopt rules relating to information technology security and to administer this section.
History.—ss. 1, 2, 3, ch. 84-236; s. 28, ch. 87-137; s. 1, ch. 89-14; s. 7, ch. 90-160; s. 13, ch. 91-171; s. 234, ch. 92-279; s. 55, ch. 92-326; s. 22, ch. 94-340; s. 863, ch. 95-148; s. 131, ch. 96-406; s. 15, ch. 97-286; s. 25, ch. 2000-164; s. 26, ch. 2001-261; s. 18, ch. 2006-26; s. 10, ch. 2007-105; s. 12, ch. 2009-80; s. 46, ch. 2010-5; s. 9, ch. 2011-50; s. 5, ch. 2014-189; s. 16, ch. 2014-221; s. 1, ch. 2016-114; s. 2, ch. 2016-138.

