ยง 2430. Definitions

The following definitions shall apply throughout this chapter unless otherwise required:

(1) "Business" means a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, limited liability company, or other group, however organized and whether or not organized to operate at a profit, including a financial institution organized, chartered, or holding a license or authorization certificate under the laws of this State, any other state, the United States, or any other country, or the parent, affiliate, or subsidiary of a financial institution, but in no case shall it include the State, a State agency, or any political subdivision of the State.

(2) "Consumer" means an individual residing in this State.

(3) "Data collector" may include the State, State agencies, political subdivisions of the State, public and private universities, privately and publicly held corporations, limited liability companies, financial institutions, retail operators, and any other entity that, for any purpose, whether by automated collection or otherwise, handles, collects, disseminates, or otherwise deals with nonpublic personal information.

(4) "Encryption" means use of an algorithmic process to transform data into a form in which the data is rendered unreadable or unusable without use of a confidential process or key.

(5)(A) "Personally identifiable information" means an individual's first name or first initial and last name in combination with any one or more of the following data elements, when either the name or the data elements are not encrypted or redacted or protected by another method that renders them unreadable or unusable by unauthorized persons:

(i) Social Security number;

(ii) motor vehicle operator's license number or nondriver identification card number;

(iii) financial account number or credit or debit card number, if circumstances exist in which the number could be used without additional identifying information, access codes, or passwords;

(iv) account passwords or personal identification numbers or other access codes for a financial account.

(B) "Personally identifiable information" does not mean publicly available information that is lawfully made available to the general public from federal, State, or local government records.

(6) "Records" means any material on which written, drawn, spoken, visual, or electromagnetic information is recorded or preserved, regardless of physical form or characteristics.

(7) "Redaction" means the rendering of data so that it is unreadable or is truncated so that no more than the last four digits of the identification number are accessible as part of the data.

(8)(A) "Security breach" means unauthorized acquisition of electronic data or a reasonable belief of an unauthorized acquisition of electronic data that compromises the security, confidentiality, or integrity of a consumer's personally identifiable information maintained by the data collector.

(B) "Security breach" does not include good faith but unauthorized acquisition of personally identifiable information by an employee or agent of the data collector for a legitimate purpose of the data collector, provided that the personally identifiable information is not used for a purpose unrelated to the data collector's business or subject to further unauthorized disclosure.

(C) In determining whether personally identifiable information has been acquired or is reasonably believed to have been acquired by a person without valid authorization, a data collector may consider the following factors, among others:

(i) indications that the information is in the physical possession and control of a person without valid authorization, such as a lost or stolen computer or other device containing information;

(ii) indications that the information has been downloaded or copied;

(iii) indications that the information was used by an unauthorized person, such as fraudulent accounts opened or instances of identity theft reported; or

(iv) that the information has been made public. (Added 2005, No. 162 (Adj. Sess.), ยง 1, eff. Jan. 1, 2007; amended 2011, No. 109 (Adj. Sess.), ยง 4, eff. May 8, 2012.)
