
365.732   Notification to affected persons of computer security breach involving 

their unencrypted personally identifiable information. 

(1) As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires: 

(a) "Breach of the security of the system" means unauthorized acquisition of 

unencrypted and unredacted computerized data that compromises the security, 

confidentiality, or integrity of personally identifiable information maintained 

by the information holder as part of a database regarding multiple individuals 

that actually causes, or leads the information holder to reasonably believe has 

caused or will cause, identity theft or fraud against any resident of the 

Commonwealth of Kentucky. Good-faith acquisition of personally identifiable 

information by an employee or agent of the information holder for the 

purposes of the information holder is not a breach of the security of the system 

if the personally identifiable information is not used or subject to further 

unauthorized disclosure; 

(b) "Information holder" means any person or business entity that conducts 

business in this state; and 

(c) "Personally identifiable information" means an individual's first name or first 

initial and last name in combination with any one (1) or more of the following 

data elements, when the name or data element is not redacted: 

1. Social Security number; 

2. Driver's license number; or 

3. Account number or credit or debit card number, in combination with any 

required security code, access code, or password to permit access to an 

individual's financial account. 

(2) Any information holder shall disclose any breach of the security of the system, 

following discovery or notification of the breach in the security of the data, to any 

resident of Kentucky whose unencrypted personal information was, or is reasonably 

believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person. The disclosure shall be 

made in the most expedient time possible and without unreasonable delay, 

consistent with the legitimate needs of law enforcement, as provided in subsection 

(4) of this section, or any measures necessary to determine the scope of the breach 

and restore the reasonable integrity of the data system. 

(3) Any information holder that maintains computerized data that includes personally 

identifiable information that the information holder does not own shall notify the 

owner or licensee of the information of any breach of the security of the data as 

soon as reasonably practicable following discovery, if the personally identifiable 

information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, acquired by an 

unauthorized person. 

(4) The notification required by this section may be delayed if a law enforcement 

agency determines that the notification will impede a criminal investigation. The 

notification required by this section shall be made promptly after the law 

enforcement agency determines that it will not compromise the investigation. 

(5) For purposes of this section, notice may be provided by one (1) of the following 



methods: 

(a) Written notice; 

(b) Electronic notice, if the notice provided is consistent with the provisions 

regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in 15 U.S.C. sec. 7001; or 

(c) Substitute notice, if the information holder demonstrates that the cost of 

providing notice would exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), 

or that the affected class of subject persons to be notified exceeds five 

hundred thousand (500,000), or the information holder does not have 

sufficient contact information. Substitute notice shall consist of all of the 

following: 

1. E-mail notice, when the information holder has an e-mail address for the 

subject persons; 

2. Conspicuous posting of the notice on the information holder's Internet 

Web site page, if the information holder maintains a Web site page; and 

3. Notification to major statewide media. 

(6) Notwithstanding subsection (5) of this section, an information holder that maintains 

its own notification procedures as part of an information security policy for the 

treatment of personally identifiable information, and is otherwise consistent with 

the timing requirements of this section, shall be deemed to be in compliance with 

the notification requirements of this section, if it notifies subject persons in 

accordance with its policies in the event of a breach of security of the system. 

(7) If a person discovers circumstances requiring notification pursuant to this section of 

more than one thousand (1,000) persons at one (1) time, the person shall also notify, 

without unreasonable delay, all consumer reporting agencies and credit bureaus that 

compile and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis, as defined by 15 

U.S.C. sec. 1681a, of the timing, distribution, and content of the notices. 

(8) The provisions of this section and the requirements for nonaffiliated third parties in 

KRS Chapter 61 shall not apply to any person who is subject to the provisions of 

Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, Pub. L. No. 106-102, as amended, 

or the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. 

No. 104-191, as amended, or any agency of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or any 

of its local governments or political subdivisions. 

Effective: July 15, 2014 

History: Created 2014 Ky. Acts ch. 84, sec. 1, effective July 15, 2014. 


