
61.932   Personal information security and breach investigation procedures and 

practices for certain public agencies and nonaffiliated third parties.   

(1) (a) An agency or nonaffiliated third party that maintains or otherwise possesses 

personal information, regardless of the form in which the personal information 

is maintained, shall implement, maintain, and update security procedures and 

practices, including taking any appropriate corrective action, to protect and 

safeguard against security breaches. 

(b) Reasonable security and breach investigation procedures and practices 

established and implemented by organizational units of the executive branch 

of state government shall be in accordance with relevant enterprise policies 

established by the Commonwealth Office of Technology. Reasonable security 

and breach investigation procedures and practices established and 

implemented by units of government listed under KRS 61.931(1)(b) and (c) 

that are not organizational units of the executive branch of state government 

shall be in accordance with policies established by the Department for Local 

Government. The Department for Local Government shall consult with public 

entities as defined in KRS 65.310 in the development of policies establishing 

reasonable security and breach investigation procedures and practices for units 

of local government pursuant to this subsection. Reasonable security and 

breach investigation procedures and practices established and implemented by 

public school districts listed under KRS 61.931(1)(d) shall be in accordance 

with administrative regulations promulgated by the Kentucky Board of 

Education. Reasonable security and breach investigation procedures and 

practices established and implemented by educational entities listed under 

KRS 61.931(1)(e) shall be in accordance with policies established by the 

Council on Postsecondary Education. The Commonwealth Office of 

Technology shall, upon request of an agency, make available technical 

assistance for the establishment and implementation of reasonable security 

and breach investigation procedures and practices. 

(c) 1. If an agency is subject to any additional requirements under the 

Kentucky Revised Statutes or under federal law, protocols, or 

agreements relating to the protection and privacy of personal 

information, the agency shall comply with these additional requirements, 

in addition to the requirements of KRS 61.931 to 61.934. 

2. If a nonaffiliated third party is required by federal law or regulation to 

conduct security breach investigations or to make notifications of 

security breaches, or both, as a result of the nonaffiliated third party's 

unauthorized disclosure of one (1) or more data elements of personal 

information that is the same as one (1) or more of the data elements of 

personal information listed in KRS 61.931(6)(a) to (f), the nonaffiliated 

third party shall meet the requirements of KRS 61.931 to 61.934 by 

providing to the agency a copy of any and all reports and investigations 

relating to such security breach investigations or notifications that are 

required to be made by federal law or regulations. This subparagraph 



shall not apply if the security breach includes the unauthorized 

disclosure of data elements that are not covered by federal law or 

regulation but are listed in KRS 61.931(6)(a) to (f). 

(2) (a) For agreements executed or amended on or after January 1, 2015, any agency 

that contracts with a nonaffiliated third party and that discloses personal 

information to the nonaffiliated third party shall require as part of that 

agreement that the nonaffiliated third party implement, maintain, and update 

security and breach investigation procedures that are appropriate to the nature 

of the information disclosed, that are at least as stringent as the security and 

breach investigation procedures and practices referenced in subsection (1)(b) 

of this section, and that are reasonably designed to protect the personal 

information from unauthorized access, use, modification, disclosure, 

manipulation, or destruction. 

(b) 1. A nonaffiliated third party that is provided access to personal 

information by an agency, or that collects and maintains personal 

information on behalf of an agency shall notify the agency in the most 

expedient time possible and without unreasonable delay but within 

seventy-two (72) hours of determination of a security breach relating to 

the personal information in the possession of the nonaffiliated third 

party. The notice to the agency shall include all information the 

nonaffiliated third party has with regard to the security breach at the time 

of notification. Agreements referenced in paragraph (a) of this 

subsection shall specify how the cost of the notification and 

investigation requirements under KRS 61.933 are to be apportioned 

when a security breach is suffered by the agency or nonaffiliated third 

party. 

2. The notice required by subparagraph 1. of this paragraph may be delayed 

if a law enforcement agency notifies the nonaffiliated third party that 

notification will impede a criminal investigation or jeopardize homeland 

or national security. If notice is delayed pursuant to this subparagraph, 

notification shall be given as soon as reasonably feasible by the 

nonaffiliated third party to the agency with which the nonaffiliated third 

party is contracting. The agency shall then record the notification in 

writing on a form developed by the Commonwealth Office of 

Technology that the notification will not impede a criminal investigation 

and will not jeopardize homeland or national security. The 

Commonwealth Office of Technology shall promulgate administrative 

regulations under KRS 61.931 to 61.934 regarding the content of the 

form. 

Effective: January 1, 2015 

History: Created 2014 Ky. Acts ch. 74, sec. 2, effective January 1, 2015. 

Legislative Research Commission Note (1/1/2015). 2014 Ky. Acts ch. 74, sec. 10 

provided that "the provisions of this Act shall not impact the provisions of KRS 

61.870 to 61.884." That proviso applies to this statute as created in Section 2 of that 

Act. 


